So let's get started
with an overview of AWS RDS.
RDS stands for Relational Database Service,
and what it means is that
it's a managed database service for database
that use SQL as a query language.
So SQL is a structured language to a query database.
It's very well-adapted and it's running on many engines.
So it allows you to create databases,
the RDS service in the cloud,
and these databases will be managed by AWS
and you get a lot of benefits from it.
So what types of database engine are managed by AWS?
Well, the first one is PostgreSQL.
Then we have MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle,
Microsoft SQL Server, IBM DB2,
and Aurora, which is a proprietary database from AWS
that we'll study in depth.
So you have to remember the types of engines
that are supported by Amazon RDS.
So why would we use RDS
versus deploying our own database service
on top of, say, an EC2 instance?
Because this is possible.
Well, RDS is a managed service
and as such, AWS provides a lot of services
on top of just giving us a database.
For example, the provisioning
of the database is fully automated,
and so is the underlying operating system patching.
There is continuous backups being made
and you are able to restore to a specific timestamp.
It's called Point in Time Restore.
You can also have monitoring dashboards
to view the performance of your database.
You can have read replicas,
and we have a dedicated lecture
on read replicas in this course.
To improve read performance, you can set up a multi AZ,
and so we do have also sections on multi AZ
that will be helpful for disaster recovery.
You have maintenance windows for the upgrades,
and you have scaling public capabilities,
both vertical, by increasing the instance-type type,
and horizontal by adding read replicas.
Filing the storage is backed by EBS,
so this is something we already know,
but the only thing we do not have
is we cannot SSH into the instances, the RDS instances.
So because this is a managed service,
AWS provides us a service,
and we don't have access to the underlying EC2 instance.
But this is not too bad,
because we get all these things
that we would have to set up on our own
if we wanted to deploy our own database engine on EC2.
So here is one feature that can come up in the exam,
and is around RDS Storage Auto Scaling.
So the idea is that when you create an RDS database,
you need to say how much storage you want,
for example, you want 20 gigabytes of storage,
but say you are using your database a lot,
and you're about to run out of free space,
then with this feature enabled,
the RDS Storage Auto Scaling,
RDS will detect that
and will scale automatically the storage for you,
so you don't have to do any kind of operations,
such as taking down database to increase the storage.
So the idea is that your application
does a lot of read and writes to your RDS database,
and then automatically
with some threshold we'll see in a second.
Then the storage can autoscale,
and that is a feature of RDS.
That is a very, very nice feature.
So, this always meant to make you avoid
the operation of scaling manually your database storage.
For this, you need to set a maximum storage threshold,
so maximum limits for how much you want the storage to grow,
'cause you don't want it to grow infinitely maybe.
And you can automatically modify storage
if the free storage is less than 10%
of what has been allocated
and the low-storage has been lasting
for more than five minutes
and six hours have passed since the last modification.
If that's the case,
then the storage will auto increase when you enable it.
This is very helpful for applications
that have an unpredictable workload
and this supports all database engines for RDS.
So that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.